$Id: CHANGES,v 3.20 1998/09/11 19:12:22 jon Exp $

# v2.00 - Friday 11th Sept 1998  ##########################################

Added pointers in the README to ADAM's dc.bot WWW indexer, the UKOLN
metadata group and software tools, and the ILRT's Zplugin.

Incorporated UKOLN's eLib projects database, replacing the old "What's
on Martin's bookshelf" database.  A minute's silence, please!

Fixed bug 2b3-001 - searching on non-ASCII characters wasn't working
even if people can type them into their browsers.  It turns out that
Perl splitting on non-alphanumerics actually treats non-ASCII characters
as punctuation/whitespace.

Fixed bug 2b3-002 - various typographical errors in the sample HTML
distributed with the ROADS software.

Fixed bug 2b3-003 - bin/iafa_lint.pl failed to detect records without
a space between the attribute and the value as an error.

Fixed bug 2b3-004 - bin/lc.pl didn't work with modern versions of
libwww-perl.  You'll now *need* a modern version of libwww-perl to
make it work, so there!  Incorporated code contributed by Bill Jupp for
reporting resources changed in the last N days - see the -w option in
the documentation.

Fixed bugs 2b3-005 and 2b3-006 - bin/cullsl.pl failed occasionally due
to a typo, didn't process the -l option properly, and didn't generate
an error message if invoked with a handle that doesn't correspond to an
actual record in the ROADS database.

Made the paths Configure uses to make a symlink from cgi-bin/search.pl
to admin-cgi/admin.pl absolute rather than relative.  What we did
before failed in some circumstances.

Renamed bin/centrix.pl (Harvest centroid extraction program) to
bin/harvest_centroid.pl.

Renamed bin/newi.pl (Z39.50 centroid extraction program) to
bin/z3950_centroid.pl.

Renamed bin/wpp_shim.pl (WHOIS++ to Harvest application level gateway)
to bin/harvest_shim.pl.

Renamed bin/wpp_z39shim.pl (WHOIS++ to Z39.50 application level gateway)
to bin/z3950_shim.pl.

Minor tweaks to the ROADS CSS stylesheet to improve overall look and
feel.

Modified the sample "complex" search form to illustrate how to do
dynamic browsing of subject categories (subject-descriptor fields) using
cgi-bin/search.pl.  Minor changes to various of the sample config files
to support this.

Made installation of the sample database optional - if you haven't got
a source directory already, you'll be asked whether you want the sample
one.

Removed the old German "translation" of our HTML messages - apparently
we didn't do a very good job!  Volunteers sought for translations into
other languages: translate the messages from the original originals,
and get a namecheck in the credits when they're incorporated in a
ROADS release.

Tweaked the embedded POD documentation to fix compatibility problems
with some of the pod2x utilities - e.g. don't use formatting on the
synopsis section.

# v2b3 - Monday July 20th 1998 ########################################

cgi-bin/redirect.pl now supports automatic redirection to mirror
sites, based on a list of URL prefixes and mirror sites held in the
ROADS config directory.  Do a "perldoc cgi-bin/redirect.pl" for more
information.

Fixed bug 2b1-003 (carried over from beta 1) - editing the Trusted
Information Provider access control list had no effect under some
circumstances.

Grouping of attributes and values to search for on the combined
attribute/value pair combo boxes in cgi-bin/search.pl didn't work
properly if you typed multiple terms into the "value" input box.
search.pl now wraps a given attribute/value combination in round
brackets, to group it together.

Although bin/wppd.pl (the WHOIS++ server) accepted a command line
argument to change the location of its index, this was being ignored
by some of the indexing code - which assumed that it was always
running out of the index directory set in lib/ROADS.pm.  This should
now have the desired effect.

admin-cgi/deindex.pl, the WWW based front end to bin/deindex.pl,
didn't pass its options through from the WWW from properly.

Updated the documentation for bin/wig.pl, the WHOIS++ index gatherer
program.  This now explains with worked examples how to use it to set
up a cross-searching service using centroids, and how to configure the
Common Indexing Protocol (CIP).

Incorporated bin/wpp_z39shim.pl - an improved WHOIS++ to Z39.50
application level gateway contributed by Peter Valkenburg of TERENA
and the TF-CHIC WWW indexing pilot project.  This replaces the earlier
Tcl based prototype, bin/schtim.tcl.

We no longer copy cgi-bin/search.pl to admin-cgi/admin.pl to use as
the admin search engine - now we make a symbolic link instead.  If
your WWW server doesn't honour symbolic links by default you'll need
to turn this feature on in order to use the admin search feature.

Included the template editor offline editing mode in the options which
are turned on by default by config/mktemp.cfg.

# v2b2 - Sunday May 24th 1998 #########################################

Added a note to Configure and the README about getting to the
on-line documentation via the perldoc utility.

Found and fixed a number of simple bugs (mostly typos and
transposition errors) in the pre-release testing process.

Converted the outline HTML for the template editor main screen,
cgi-bin/suggest.pl, and cgi-bin/survey.pl to use HTML 3.2 TABLEs.
This seems to improve the look and feel of these pages quite a
bit, without locking out Lynx users.

Integrated fixes to NWI/EWI Z39.50 server centroid generation
code as a result of feedback from the TF-CHIC pilot participants.
We now use a temporary hash database instead of trying to build
the centroid in memory.

Integrated contributed code from Peter Valkenburg (TERENA) for
improved WHOIS++ <-> Harvest gatewaying.

Improved documentation (POD) quality for subject listings.

mktemp.pl was dumping out its Content-Type header in the wrong
place.

Configure now always uses the current version number, even if the
settings are read in from an existing ROADS.pm file.

Moved config/lookupcluster-views into config/multilingual/* - no
need to have it in the top level config directory any more.

We now ignore blank lines in config/databases.

We now handle stoplisted terms that are next to brackets.

Integrated version 1 patches.

# v2b1 - Tuesday 10th March 1998 ######################################

More or less a repackaging of the last alpha release.  However there
have been some minor changes...

Bug fixing :-

Form result processing in cgi-bin/survey.pl now substitutes for any
double quotes (") and commas (') in field values, since these are used
to wrap the response values when they're saved to disk.

We were inadvertantly distributing two versions of the sample survey
questionnaire - one in the config/multilingual/*/survey directory, and
another in the old location in config/survey.  The latter has been
removed.

Found and fixed a bug in the rendering of templates as WHOIS++ search
results which would occasionally give bogus results - e.g. the wrong
attribute/value pair.

Made the installation process (./Configure) require less typing from
the installer by showing default choices for each section in advance
and giving the option of skipping if the settings are acceptable.

Stopped views in the template that didn't contain a cluster reference
from deleting all the data in that cluster.

New stuff :-

All HTML code now refers to a CSS1 style sheet held in
htdocs/looknfeel/thatroadslook.css which allows services to broadly
alter the appearence of the site for CSS1 compatible browsers without
having to tweak the HTML files by hand individually.

All Perl code now contains embedded documentation written using POD,
including library routines.

Integrated code to extract centroids from Harvest Gatherers/Brokers
and SOIF template collections - bin/centrix.pl

Integrated code to extract centroids from collections of WIR objects
created by the DESIRE/NWI/EWI "Combine" robot - bin/newi.pl

Integrated rudimentary Harvest Broker application level query gateway
for cross-searching - bin/wpp_shim.pl

Integrated even more rudimentary Z39.50 application level gateway for
cross-searching - bin/schtim.tcl.  NB: This requires that you fetch
and install IrTcl from www.indexdata.dk.  It will a) probably only
work against Zebra servers loading with templates created by Combine,
and b) require modification in order to run at all.  Because of the
complexity of the Z39.50 protocol this will always be a hacker-only
tool :-(

# v2a3 - Wednesday December 3rd 1997 #################################

Implemented additional version 2 requirements :-

2 - Default values in template editor are now "sensible", so no more
  wibble :-)

3 - Template editor now supports the additional and removal of both
  clusters and variants during an editing session (i.e. on the final
  form it displays).  Should we now provide an option to remove the
  "how many additional variants/clusters?" stage ?

21 - Hide automatically generated fields' values.  Done in the sample
  "common elements" view distributed with version 2.

24 - Simple template view "Common elements" of the most commonly used
  template attributes based on centroids gathered for cross-searching
  experiment.

29 - Sensible defaults in place for "Category:" attribute in
  templates, but possibly not sensible enough.  Comments needed.

31 - See 24.

35 - Created "Mailshot" view of What's New listing to simulate BUBL
  style mailshot.

Bug fixes and new mini/maxi-features :-

The WHOIS++ server should no longer die if it has problems forking.

The template editor now supports an "offline composition" mode, in
which it places new or edited templates in a holding area for later
reindexing.

A sample cron job "bin/rebuild.pl" has been created to show how to
integrate offine editing with periodic database reindexing and the
building of subject/what's new listings.

The template editor no longer creates its temporary files in the main
template source directory - uses $ROADS::TmpDir instead.

Added code to ReadTemplate to read list of template handle to filename
mappings (normally guts/alltemps), and told the readtemplate
subroutine to use this if not initialised already.

Replaced hard coded template and alltemps reading routines in most of
the ROADS tools (e.g. addsl, addwn, cullsl, cullwn, deindex, ...) with
calls to readalltemps/readtemplate.

Changed numerous $hash{$var} instances to $hash{"$var"} for extra
resilience - some variables' values weren't being interpolated
properly.

A new CGI program "suggest.pl" has been written.  This lets end users
submit a simplistic template style record which is emailed to the
ROADS database admin - the fields on the form are admin configurable.

Moved preferredURL subroutine from subject listing code into a
separate Perl module PreferredURL and updated the tools which depend
on it to use this version.

Added additional HTML rendering language feature - test for a given
value for a given attribute, e.g. <@subject-descriptor=815>

Made generation of subject listing alphabetical and numeric indexes
optional - turn-offable by -A and -N switches on command line for
addsl and cullsl.

Subject and what's new listings should now be able to have their HTML
customised in the same way that search results can be - we're now
using the search result rendering code to generate them.  This means
that the outline HTML for these tools has now moved into the
multilingual/*/subject-listing-views and
multilingual/*/whats-new-views directories.

Added 'coldstart' option to wppdc.pl - works as start option but also
causes any existing wppd.pid to be removed.  For use in (say)
automatically cold starting the WHOIS++ server after a reboot.

Added sample System V style run-level script to start wppd
automatically when the machine is booted up - bin/init.wppd.

Changed background job launching from admincentre programs so that it
only sends mail once if the ROADS tech contact and admin contact are
the same.

Templates directory name in bin/countattr.pl would be truncated if
buried deeply in filesystem directory hierarchy - made more room for
it.

Made bin/bogus.pl only check for the writeability of the temporary
directory, rather than doing a recursive traversal - people seem to
have lots of random junk in their temporary directories, so the news
that some/all of this stuff isn't writeable can be misleading.

Changed debugging statements in deindex.pl which named it as mkinv.pl
- casualties of cutting'n'pasting!

Changed HTML form associated with WWW deindexing front end -
admin-cgi/deindex.pl, since we no longer reindex the whole database as
a result of a deindex.

Made URIs optional in default distributed template outlines.

Added URI attribute to USER and ORGANIZATION templates in default
outlines.

Changed template editor rendering style so that single line fields are
displayed with no intervening vertical white space apart from the
basic newline.  This lets us get more stuff onto each screen with the
template editor.

Added CGI client end search logging in addition to WHOIS++ server end
- WHOIS++ server logs now written to logs/wppd-hits by default, and
CGI search logs to logs/search-hits.  This means we get real client
info in the search-hits, and capture WHOIS++ activity separately
(e.g. useful for analysing cross-searching).

Added logging for WHOIS++ system commands and syntax errors - we were
only logging search requests before.

Added test for attribute name 'ANY' in attribute/value variant of the
search form, so that you can specifically un-constrain a particular
search term.  When the attribute name is 'ANY', it's removed from the
query before the query is passed on to the server.

Moved generic HTML rendering substitutions, e.g. <HTDOCS>, into a
separate routine GenericSubs which is called from both OutputHTML and
Render.  We have convergence :-)

Removed url: prefix from AltaVista sample search result expansion -
should now find some matches!

Updated survey questionnaire to change fields from radio buttons to
drop down SELECT lists and made text boxes/areas bigger.

HTML rendering code now ignores Emacs backup files when looking for
subject listing rendering rules (e.g. header~)

search.pl can now be called as nph-search.pl, in which case it tries
to dump out HTTP headers and a line of HTML before proceeding as
normal.  This may make it harder for people to press the "submit"
button on the search form lots of times when response times are a bit
slow.  Note that you will to change your search form or create a new
form which has the nph- invocation as a target and call search.pl with
the CGI parameter form=<new_formname>.

As a byproduct of these changes some files and directories have moved
about :-

Changed config/subject-listing/udc-map to config/class-map.
Moved config/subject-listing/outlines to
  config/multilingual/*/subject-listing-views
Moved config/whats-new/outlines to
  config/multilingual/*/whats-new-views
Moved config/subject-listing/views/* to config/subject-listing.
Moved config/whats-new/views/* to config/whats-new.
Removed 'Outline-File' entry from whats-new views.
Removed 'Outline-File', 'Alpha-Outline' and 'Number-Outline'
  from subject-listing views.
Added 'AlphaList-File', 'NumList-File' and 'WWW-Directory' to
  subject-listing views.

# v2a2 - Friday October 10th 1997 ####################################

Integrated code for indexing I18N characters.

Bug fix for centroid searching - mixed/upper case queries weren't
being interpreted properly.

Implemented more ROADS version 2 requirements :-  (nearly done now!)

3 - The number of variants is now dynamically alterable during the
  editing of a template.  Buttons have been provided which allow for
  the addition of an extra variant, or deletion of the most recently
  added variant.

4 - It is now possible to edit the options that appear at the bottom
  of the template editor views, so that trusted information providers
  only have access to the ones that the ROADS administrator wishes.
  A new admin-cgi script "mktemp-config-editor.pl" has been written to
  allow the configuration files that specify who can do what to be
  easily setup and altered by the ROADS server administrator.

10 - It's now possible to describe relationships between objects in the
  templates - initially concentrating on parent/child relationships, but
  allowing for other relationships to be defined at a later stage.  A
  new relation specific variant has been introduced.  The bin/addsl.pl
  and bin/cullsl.pl scripts have been modified so that subject
  listings can display related templates.

19 - It is now possible to insert an existing template of the
  appropriate type as a cluster into one being edited by quoting its
  handle, in addition to the cluster search feature.  Any entries made
  in the cluster's form will override the entries inherited from the
  template referred to by the handle - so, for instance, you can type
  in a template's handle to include it as a cluster, but then change
  an attribute or two for the version which eventually appears in the
  main template which is being created/edited.

20 - A note has been added to the 'handle' attribute's entry in the
  template editor outlining how to create a new template based on the
  currently displayed one.

21b - Arbitrary text can now be associated with attributes when
  they're rendered in the template editor, e.g. a note next to the
  handle field informing the user that is automatically generated.
  This is possible on a template type/attribute basis, or for all
  instances of a given attribute.

22 - A section has been added to the ROADS documentation demonstrating
  how small (e.g. one line) Perl scripts may be used to perform global
  edits on ROADS templates.

24 - Sub-string searching is now possible.  In fact, this was the
  default behaviour in previous versions of ROADS!  It's now possible
  to select the behaviour you want.  Note that stemming and substring
  searching are mutually exclusive.

26 - It's now possible to control the regular expression used to
  tokenise terms in the templates when they're being indexed.  This
  means that you can (for instance) index full email addresses and
  potentially full URLs.  The results will vary from database to
  database, but we anticipate that indexing full URLs won't work well
  for most people because of the internal structure of the ROADS
  database index.

28 - The subject listing generator now only display parents in subject
  listings with links to children.

30 - ROADS templates are now version numbered.  The current version is
  "1", and this appears in templates created by the template editor as
  an additional attribute Template-Version:

34 - Criteria for inclusion in the what's new list are now more
  flexible, e.g. restricting the list to the last N records added,
  using the "-l" command line switch, or to records added since a
  particular date/time, using the "-z" switch.

36 - The link checker now notes (up to a point) when the content of an
  object has changed.  We now keep two DB(M) databases in the ROADS
  "guts" directory - "lastmodified" and "contentlength", and flag a
  change when either of these has been altered.


# v2a1 - Friday August 15th 1997 #####################################

Integrated fixes from version 1 code base.

Major changes: all library code apart from the template editor is now
packaged in Perl module form, and should cleanly export public
functions and data structures using the Exporter module.

The WHOIS++ server can now handle *simple* centroid gathering and
referral generation (a la RFC 1913/1914).

Implemented version 2 requirements :-

5 - A separate tool, dup_urls.pl, has been written to identify
templates containing duplicate URLs.

6 - Attribute/value constraints (up to a maximum of three pairs) can
be added to the search form, and the style of searching (AND or OR)
can be selected using a form element.  These can be hidden (e.g. to
hard wire a particular subject category), used with drop-down lists
(e.g. the HTML <SELECT> widget), and so on.  It's also now possible to
have multiple search forms and select the one which is wanted using a
CGI parameter.

7 - It's now possible to have multiple HTML renderings of the search
results, using a CGI parameter to select the one to display.  The
rendering of an individual template into HTML is now conditional, and
it's trivial to have a completely different way of rendering (for
instance) a particular type of object (e.g. document versus service
versus image), or to have different rendering rules depending on the
server the object was retrieved from in a centroid based search across
multiple servers.

8 - see 7!

11 - The addition of a specific country code to a record template
  so that on can make browsable lists by country, using an attribute called
  Organization-Country in the ORGANIZATION cluster, and the ISO country codes
  as the format of entry.

12 - The addition of new default TRAINMAT template - outlined in
  Appendix A of RFC 2007: Foster et al., Catalogue of Network Training
  Materials, October 1996 <URL:http://ds.internic.net/rfc/rfc2007.txt>.

13 - Configuration documentation should be consolidated into an
  Admin Guide to Configuration, including pseudo-HTML configuration features.
  The individual documentation should be consolidated into a full admin
  guide.  Should be in different formats: RTF, PostScript, HTML and LaTeX.

14 - The should be a document explaining the logic behind the search
  algorithm.  This was asked for at the technical meeting.

15 - It has been noted that there is difficulty in working at the
  UNIX command line level when the files are being manipulated are typically
  owned by nobody.  Some hints and tips covering strategies for
  dealing with this using UNIX users/groups and ACLs where available
  have been incorporated into the ROADS admin guide (actually done
  for ROADS version 1).

16 - The Admin Guide now includes guidance on moving a test
  installation to a live installation (actually done for ROADS version
  1).

17 - The installer tool now explicitly refers to the WWW based
  installation checker in the ROADS admin centre (actually done for
  ROADS version 1).

18 - The installation can now pick up and use existing configuration
  information - i.e. the lib/ROADS.pm file (actually done for ROADS
  version 1).

27 - Each of the ROADS WWW based admin tools can now take an access
  control list, indicating which HTTP authenticated users may use it.

32 - The sample templates shipped with the ROADS distribution now
  contain a record-status attribute to record the stage which the
  cataloguing process has gotten to.

33 - Records created by the template editor now contain the
  attributes Record-Created-By-Date: and Record-Created-By-Email:

37 - A tool has been written which performs a WHOIS++ search and
  returns a list of matching template handles.  This may be used as
  input to any of the other ROADS tools which operate on a list of
  handles, e.g. to generate customised browsable lists.
