
                   ROADS software version 2.3
                   --------------------------

WHAT IS THIS ?

The ROADS software is a collection of tools which can be used in
building on-line catalogues.  You could think of it as a free version
of Yahoo, with lots of value-added features to make life easier for
the service operator.

Key features of the package are :-

  . Simple text based resource description format
  . World-Wide Web forms based resource description editor
  . WWW and WHOIS++ based search capability 
  . Automatic generation of customised views of the
      catalogue, e.g. breakdowns by subject category
  . Automatic generation of listings of recently added
      resources
  . Dynamic browsing of resources in particular subject
      categories
  . Highly customizable HTML output
  . Distributed indexing and searching across multiple
      WHOIS++ servers using the Common Indexing Protocol
      (centroids)
  . Limited support for indexing and searching Harvest
      and Z39.50 servers
  . Tested for Year 2000 compliance according to the
      British Standards Institute's check list

It also features a number of World-Wide Web based database
administration tools, e.g.

  . Index maintenance
  . Removing/archiving old resource descriptions
  . Overall installation consistency checking
  . Resource description consistency checking
  . Review date checking
  . Checking for broken links (dangling URLs)
  . Checking for duplicate URLs
  . Checking for URL currency, e.g. records which
      have (or have not) been changed recently

Most of these tools can be used independently of each other.  You
could choose, for example, not to support searching via WHOIS++ - or
not to generate subject category breakdowns of your resource
descriptions.  However, all of the tools are written to manipulate
their data in the IAFA template format, a simple way of writing simple
Internet resource descriptions.


BACKGROUND

The aim of this work is to provide infrastructure software to support
a growing number of Subject Based Information Gateways, sometimes
referred to as SBIGs.  Examples of existing gateway services using the
ROADS software include:

  ADAM:    <URL:http://adam.ac.uk/>     - Art, Design & Media
  Alex:    <URL:http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/alex/>
                                        - Electronic Texts
  Biz/ed:  <URL:http://bized.ac.uk/>    - Business & Economics
  History: <URL:http://ihr.sas.ac.uk/>  - History
  OMNI:    <URL:http://omni.ac.uk/>     - Health & Medicine
  SOSIG:   <URL:http://sosig.ac.uk/>    - Social Sciences

The development of this software was initially funded by the Joint
Information Systems Committee (JISC) of the UK Higher Education
Funding Councils as part of a project called Resource Organisation and
Discovery in Subject-based Services (ROADS!).  ROADS is one of a
number of projects in the UK Electronic Libraries Programme (aka
eLib).  Further funding has been made available through the European
Commission's 'DESIRE' project (under the Telematics for Research
programme), and by TERENA under its Development Programme.

More information about ROADS as a project and the ROADS software is
available at the Institute for Learning and Research Technology (ILRT)
at Bristol University :-

  <URL:http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/roads/>

More information about eLib and the eLib subject services is available
from the UK Office of Library and Information Networking (UKOLN),
based at the University of Bath :-

  <URL:http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/elib/>


THE AUTHORS

This software was written by Jon Knight and Martin Hamilton, in the
Department of Computer Studies at Loughborough University of
Technology, deep in the heart of the English Midlands.

We've been aided and abetted by a number of people who ran alpha and
beta test versions of the code, contributed bug reports and (best of
all :-) bug fixes.  Our thanks to you!

In particular, we'd like to thank: Mark Burrell, Debra Hiom, Andy
Powell, Rebecca Bradshaw, Bob Parkinson, Dan Brickley, Jasper
Tredgold, Donal Hanna, Bill Jupp, Thomas Krichel, Virginia Knight,
Peter Valkenburg, Lasse Haataja, Rami Heinisuo and Annemette Hoegsbro.


REQUIREMENTS

This version of the ROADS software requires 

  . a Unix-like operating system, e.g. Linux or FreeBSD
  . Perl 5.002 or above (5.004 recommended)
  . an HTTP daemon which supports the Common Gateway
      Interface (CGI) specification, e.g. the Apache
      or NCSA servers.

In order to run the link checking tool, and its associated report
generator, you will need libwww-perl-5, which may be obtained from

  <URL:http://www.sn.no/libwww-perl/>

or your nearest Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (CPAN) site, which
you can find by pointing your WWW browser at

  <URL:http://www.perl.com/CPAN/>

The ROADS software was developed mostly under SunOS 4.1.4 and Linux
using the Apache HTTP server.  It has also been lightly tested under
other variants of Unix, including IRIX 5, HP/UX 9, Digital Unix
(OSF/1) and Solaris 2.  Please let us know if you have any difficulty
in getting it running on your platform!


INSTALLATION

If you're running RedHat Linux, we've made installation very simple
for you - ROADS is available as an 'RPM' package which can be
installed and configured with just a single command at the Unix shell
prompt.  Check out our software WWW site for more information!

If not, you'll have to do it the hard way :-)

The ROADS software distribution is packaged up as a compressed Unix
tar file.  To extract the installation from this file use:

  zcat roads-v2.3.tar.Z | tar xvf -

Make sure that you use binary mode if you transfer the compressed tar
file over the Internet using FTP.  If not, it will be damaged in
transit and will not be usable.

Once the tar file has been expanded you should find that you have a
directory called roads-v2.3.

Before you start installing the software, we suggest that you read the
installation guide, which you will find along with our other on-line
documentation at:

  http://www.roads.lut.ac.uk/v2/Manual/

To install the software, enter the roads-v2.3 directory and type:

  ./Configure

If this doesn't work, try

  perl ./Configure

You may need to give the full path to Perl, e.g.

 /usr/local/bin/perl ./Configure

This runs a configuration script which will find out about your
machine, ask you some simple questions about where you wish to install
the ROADS software and documentation and then proceed to install the
software.  The ROADS software does NOT need to run as the "root"
superuser on your machine but it is important that the user the HTTP
daemon runs as (e.g. nobody) is able to read the files which the ROADS
software generates.

Installation of the software need not take place as root, unless you
do not have write access to all of the directories involved in the
installation.  If in doubt, you can install the ROADS software in the
directory in which it was unpacked - which will NOT require root.

Depending on which components of the ROADS software you choose to use,
you may need to grant your HTTP daemon write access to some of the
ROADS files and directories.  This is discussed in detail in the
appropriate sections of the documentation.


DOCUMENTATION

A (nearly!) comprehensive set of of technical documentation is
available alongside this release.  We have tried to document the
following:

  . the installation process itself
  . programs used to maintain the ROADS installation
  . programs used to manage databases of resource descriptions
  . programs interacted with by end users
  . configuration file formats
  . log file formats
  . internal file formats

Technical notes on the overall installation and configuration process
will be forthcoming in a future release, as will documentation aimed
at the non-technical user and end-user.

We maintain a software and documentation archive at Loughborough
University of Technology.  This can be reached on the Web as

  <URL:http://www.roads.lut.ac.uk/>

Look out for draft documentation and information about new versions of
the software here!

Hint: the ROADS tools are self-documenting, using Perl's "POD" system.
This means that you can get to the documentation for a program or
library module by typing something like :-

  perldoc bin/addsl.pl

i.e. "perldoc" followed by the path to the Perl code.


SAMPLE DATABASE

The ROADS software ships with a sample database of UK Electronic
Libraries Programme (eLib) projects created by the team at UKOLN, many
of which complement the work done on ROADS.

If you don't already have a database of your own, you'll be asked
whether you want to install this.  To build an HTML breakdown of the
records in the eLib projects database, use the bin/addsl.pl program,
e.g.

  bin/addsl.pl -aiN


CONTACT DETAILS

If you have any problems, queries or comments about this software
package, please contact the ROADS team :-

  roads-liaison@bristol.ac.uk

Note that this alias expands to several people, and has a publicly
readable archive on the WWW!

You may also find it worthwhile subscribing to the open-roads mailing
list.  This is a public forum for users of the ROADS software.

To subscribe to the mailing list send an email message with the word
"subscribe" in the body to open-roads-request@net.lut.ac.uk.  This
mailing list is the place to be if you want to suggest features for
future releases, as sometimes we have to weigh up contradictory
requirements from our users and this requires some discussion.

We also have a mailing list for strictly technical discussions -
send mail to roads-hackers-request@net.lut.ac.uk with the word
"subscribe" alone in the body to join.

Cheers!

Jon Knight <J.P.Knight@lut.ac.uk>
Martin Hamilton <M.T.Hamilton@lut.ac.uk> 

$Id: README,v 3.19 1999/04/21 15:04:45 martin Exp martin $
